---
title: virtual-bundle
date: 2024-12-17 09:34:42
permalink: /pages/46be03/
categories: 
  - 亚马逊运营
tags: 
  - 亚马逊运营
  - 类目
---

虚拟捆绑，这里面有很多天坑。

1、子产品都忆提交了 FCC ID，虚拟捆绑为何又要提供 FCC ID？
2、虚拟捆绑，前端状态一直处于“Currently unavailable.”

case id: 16774705051

We have two virtual bundles, with parent asins and child asins, details as follows:

1. virtual bundle, parent asin B0D1B3YZ67 - black
   a. Child ssin B09V9NVSSH, FCC ID: 2A3UZ-SFQ16
   b. Child an B0CZK7K1Y7, FCC ID: 2AFP2FC14

2. virtual bundle, parent asin B0CXDRQH5W - wood
   a. Child asin B09VB12M1B, FCC ID: 2A3UZ-SFQ16
   b. Child asin B09VY9ZRGM, FCC ID: 2AFP2FC14

Upon creation, both virtual bundles have been removed for "Restricted Products Policy Violation".

With each standalone and independent child asin already has its own fcc id provided, why does the virtual bundle (parent asins) still require an fcc id? Even if we want to take the efforts to fill out the required fcc id, there is no access point for us to do so on these two virtual bundle products.

Please guide us through the necessary process to reactive these two blocked removed virtual bundles. Thank you.

关于虚拟捆绑前端不可售，跟客服从 2024 年 8 月至 2025 年 3月反复拉扯了 8 个月，终于有个专家出来给出了以下解决方案：

> As we investigate Virtual Bundle ASINs are to not be updated outside of the bundle tool.
> If a bundle is ever updated outside of the bundle tool, the system will then treat the ASIN as a normal Base Product and throw an error.
> In order to prevent sellers from breaking their own bundles, sellers must go to the bundle edit tool by clicking "edit" on the bundle ASIN when in the Manage Inventory page in Seller Central.
> This is the only place where bundles should be edited/created.
> Please click 'edit' when in the Manage Inventory dashboard for the bundle and re-save/re-submit the bundle (no edits to content or price are necessary). This will 're-drive' the bundle in our systems and become buyable again.
