---
title: Product page - Sound Rise II
date: 2024-10-22 09:11:20
permalink: /pages/510a12/
categories: 
  - 亚马逊运营
  - 类目
tags: 
  - 亚马逊运营
---

## Title

- Soundfreaq Sound Rise II, SFQ-16: Bedside Alarm Clock Radio & Bluetooth Speaker, with Large Display Screen, FM Radio, 3 USB Chargers, and Nature Sound (Black)
- Soundfreaq Sound Rise II, SFQ-16: Bedside Alarm Clock Radio & Bluetooth Speaker, with Large Display Screen, FM Radio, 3 USB Chargers, and Nature Sound (Wood Taupe)

## Bullet points

- ALL IN ONE, COMPACT & MINIMALIST DESIGN: A bedside clock radio with large LCD screen & 5 levels of dimmer, a wireless Bluetooth speaker for streaming music from your mobile devices, with 15/30/60/90/120 sleep timer. With its compact size and textured finish, Sound Rise II is a true space-saver, ideal for bedrooms, offices and hotels

- FOR AN ENHANCED LISTENING EXPERIENCE: Features a precisely tuned high performance bass diaphragm that delivers powerful and smooth low frequencies. A custom-designed monophonic driver delivers balanced audio with vocal clarity, while a passive radiator enhances bass response and is optimised for distortion-free volume

- VERSATILE FUNCTIONALITY & FAST CHARGING: More than just a desktop Bluetooth speaker, Sound Rise II also features 3 fast USB charging ports that support up to 3 connected devices simultaneously—2 top-mounted intelligent USB ports (20W Type-C & 12W Type-A) and 1 rear-mounted USB port (18W Type-A QC3.0). An optional Soundfreaq wireless charging pad can be seamlessly integrated into the main unit

- EASY SETUP & INTUITIVE INTERFACE: The user interface is designed for simplicity and ease of use. Users can effortlessly set alarms, adjust volume and tune the FM radio using a pair of sleek dials. This intuitive design ensures that even first-time users can set up and operate the clock radio with ease, making it an ideal choice for hotel guests

- STAY RELAXED & PEACE OF MIND: Sound Rise II is also a nature sound machine. This allows users to enjoy soothing nature sounds such as bird chirping, forest sounds, ocean waves, rain dripping, city sounds and temple bells. Helps you fall asleep faster & get a better quality of sleep, improve concentration & focus, and enjoy a moment of relaxation & peace

- PROGRESSIVE WAKE-UP VOLUME: The Soundfreaq Sound Rise II is perfect for anyone who hates being woken up abruptly. Featuring snooze and gradual wake-up volume, you can choose to slowly come out of slumber to Bluetooth music, FM radio or the built-in alarm chime. Users can also set the highest alarm volume to their preference, making the alarm volume is both audible and comfortable

## Generic Keyword

father's day christmas gift clock senior heavy sleeper present boyfriend bedroom essential sleep aid device alarm system digital display USB hub fast charger adjustable brightness morning routine sleep enhancement sound therapy
