---
title: Build International Listings
date: 2024-11-20 15:24:02
permalink: /pages/9eda89/
categories: 
  - 亚马逊运营
  - 类目
tags: 
  - 亚马逊运营
---

`Edit listing >> Offer`

## Manage offers in other marketplaces

You may be able to sell this product in other marketplaces. Provide a price and quantity for each. If the detail page does not yet exist, Amazon will attempt to translate your local content automatically, for free. You can modify translated content later. The same SKU and condition will be used globally. [Learn more](#Amazon-Global-Selling)

## Amazon Global Selling {#Amazon-Global-Selling}

https://sellercentral.amazon.com/help/hub/reference/popup/201062890

With Amazon Global Selling, you can list and sell your products on any of our stores in the America, Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Europe. Amazon currently has 21 stores, allowing you to expand your business. If you are a US-based seller, then go to global selling opportunities with Amazon for an overview of Global Selling.

If you are already selling on any of our Amazon stores, then go to Sell globally dashboard ( Inventory > Sell globally ) to register and start selling on another store. If you are new to selling on Amazon, then select the country you want to start selling in and click the below link to register your Seller Central account.

## Sell Globally

https://sellercentral.amazon.com/global-selling/dashboard

## Soundfreaq Canada

https://www.amazon.ca/s?me=A1ZU3V2ZXZ5QHR&marketplaceID=A2EUQ1WTGCTBG2

## Build International Listings

BIL will automatically attempt to translate product details into the Target Marketplace language if the ASIN does not exist in Amazon.com.br. Download the BIL report and filter the "Synchronization Grouping" column by "Selected offers failed auto-translation of ASIN into Amazon.com.br" to see the reasons why translation may have failed.

**Note: Amazon automated translation can fail due to Marketplace specific restrictions that may not be in your source marketplace**

**To enable synchronization of these offers, follow the steps below:**

1. Download and navigate to the BIL report and filter the "Synchronization Grouping" column by "Selected offers failed auto-translation of ASIN into Amazon.com.br" to see a list of ASINs requiring a detail page in Amazon.com.br
2. Create the ASIN manually in Amazon.com.br, in the appropriate language. The SKU for the ASIN must match the SKU in Amazon.com
3. Since the SKU was manually created in Amazon.com.br, it was automatically added to the BIL connection exclusion list
4. Navigate to Exclusions to remove the exclusion for the offer created
5. BIL will attempt to synchronize the offer
6. Generate a new BIL report to see updated synchronization statuses of these offers

## Manage Exclusions

`Build International Listings >> Manage Exclusions`

Build International Listings allows you to exclude SKUs from BIL price synchronization.

When you exclude offers:

- Build International Listings will not reprice offers when the source offer prices are updated or currency exchange rates are changed.

When you reconnect offers:

- The price of these offers will resynchronize based on the price in your selected source marketplace and the price rules that you selected for this connection in Build Internation Listings.
- The price of these offers will update as you change your offer price in the source marketplace.
- Build International Listings will also automatically update prices on these offers in the target marketplace based on exchange rate fluctuations.

## To Do List

- B09V9NVSSH (SFQ-16 Black)
  - [x] Canada
  - [x] Brazil
- B09VB12M1B (SFQ-16WT)
  - [x] Canada
  - [ ] Brazil - ASIN does not exist in this marketplace.
  - [ ] Hazmat/Dangerous Goods Status
