---
title: Tutorial for Beginners
date: 2023-10-10 00:20:47
permalink: /pages/a37f11/
tags:
  - Shotcut
author:
  name: Alowree
  link: https://github.com/alowree
categories:
  - Tool
  - Shotcut
---

**Shotcut** is a free, open source, cross-platform video editor.

This article consists of a beginner’s notes about some very basic operations of Shotcut.

<!-- more -->

## Open a File

Open and select one video file from your computer, the selected video file would be played in the preview window.

But if your imported videos receive a quality drop, you might want to check `Settings >> Video Mode`, and make sure it is not on `Automatic`, but rather on some other HD or UHD setting that matches your original video.

## Set your video mode for vertical

```
Settings >> Video Mode >> Non-Broadcast >> Vertical HD 30 fps` or `Vertical HD 60 fps
```

## Ripple

## Ripple All Tracks

If you press the Ripple button and move a clip to the left or right the other clips on that same track will follow. If you press the second Ripple button to the right of the first one it will make the clips on tracks above and below follow. So you can use that button to quickly move many clips especially clips on other tracks above and below.

## Playlist

When open and select multiple video files from your computer, the selected video files will be placed into Playlist on the left side of preview window.

## Trim

## Toggle Snapping On / Off

## Modulate the Pace

## Transition

### Transition on the same timeline

### Transition between 1st track and 2nd track

Filters, Ctrl + 6

Fade in video

## Add audio track

## Detach audio

## Multitrack

## Add Text to a Video

`Filters >> Add a filter >> Text:Simple`

Default text is #timecode#, which adds the time lapse stamp to the screen.

Text can be customized into subtiles, with begin-to-end durations and font, color, size...

`Open Other >> Text`

Add a new Video Track

Drag Filter to new Video Track

Add `Fade In` and `Fade Out`

If you will need multiple subtitles across the entire timeline, simply Copy and Paste the edited Text Filter alongside the new Video Track, and then change the wording as needed.

How to remove text from an existing video?

## Keyframes

for text to move in linear

Keyframe type

- discrete
- linear
- smooth

if the clcok icon is available, that means the keyframe is available otherwise not.

## Export the file from

- timeline
- playlist
- each playlist item
- source

## Split at Playhead

take out a chunk

## Insert an Image

picture duration can be as long as you want

## Add a video track

new layer

the layer on the top covers the lower ones

the top layer can be picture or video

## Ripple trim and drop (insert)

## overlapping in timeline creates transitions

right click and select properties, for many transition effects

Dissolve to Barn Door Horizontal

## Remove entire track

right click the track and select remove track

hold shift could do multiple selections

Shift + I

Shift + O
