---
title: 04.Visual Mode
date: 2024-07-27 20:22:53
permalink: /pages/810d40/
categories: 
  - editor
tags: 
  - editor
  - Vim
---

Is there a command to enter Visual Block mode in Vim?

- On Windows, `<C-q>`
- On MacOS, `<C-v>`

## 进入可视模式

Method 1

There is no built in command to start visual block mode in Vim, but you can define one yourself:

```vim
command! Vb normal~ <C-v>
```

NOTE: User defined commands start with a capital letter.

Also, there may be a conflicting mapping which prevents you from using `<C-v>` to enter Visual Block mode. To check for any conflicting mappings for `<C-v>`, you can run in command-line `:verbose map <C-v>`, where I get "No mapping found".

Method 2

在 Windows 环境，`<C-v>` 是粘贴功能，为了在 Vim 中使用 Visual Block 模式，可以使用 `<C-q>` 来进入该模式。

## Tip 20. 深入理解可视模式

_Visual mode allows us to select a range of text and then operate upon it. However intuitive this might seem, Vim's perspective on selecting text is different from other text editors._

Many of the commands that you are familiar with from Normal mode work just the same in Visual mode. We can still use `h`, `j`, `k`, and `l` as cursor keys. We can use `f{char}` to jump to a character on the current line and then repeat or reverse the jump with the `;` and `,` commands, respectively. We can even use the search command (and `n`/`N`) to jump to pattern matches. Each time we move our cursor in Visual mode, we change the bounds of the selection.

- `viw` 选中当前单词，然后 `c` 删除单词并进入插入模式；`ciw` 删除选中单词并进入插入模式
- 上述命令等效于直接 `cw`

We can toggle between Visual and Select modes by pressing `<C-g>`.

## Tip 21. 选择高亮选区

- `v` 选择字符
- `V` 选择行
- `<C-q>`选择列
- `gv` 重选上次的高亮选区
- `o` 对调光标在选中区块的对角线位置
- `<Esc>` or `<C-[>` switch to Normal mode

Toggling the Free End of a Selection

1. `vbb` Select backwards by two words
2. `o` toggle the other end of the selection
3. `e` select forward to the end of word

## Tip 22. 重复执行面向行的可视命令

When we use the dot command to repeat a change made to a visual selection, it repeats the change on the same range of text. In this tip, we'll make a change to a line-wise selection and then repeat it with the dot command.

```python
def fib(n):
    a, b = 0, 1
    while a < n:
    print(a)
    a, b = b, a+b
fib(42)
```

- `Vj` 选一行、选二行
- `>` 缩进一层
- `.` 重复缩进

1. 基于 `$VIM\vimrc` 的当前配置，已经可以完成上述操作：

```vim
set autoindent
set noexpandtab
set tabstop=2
set shiftwidth=2
```

2. 书中作者建议了另一种配置：

```vim
:set shiftwidth=4 softtabstop=4 expandtab
```

经过测试，两者表现至少在操作上述代码缩进时的表现是一致的。那么问题来了，为什么在第一种配置的情况下，缩进仍然是 4 个空格，还不是 2 个空格呢？

## Tip 23. Prefer Operators to Visual Commands Where Possible {#tip-23-prefer-operators-to-visual-commands-where-possible}

Visual mode may be more intuitive than Vim's Normal mode of operation, but it has a weakness: it doesn't always play well with the dot command. We can route around this weakness by using Normal mode operators when appropriate.

```html
<a href="#">one</a>
<a href="#">two</a>
<a href="#">three</a>
```

Method 1

- `vit` visually select inside the tag
- `U` converts to uppercase

When a Visual mode command is repeated, it affects the same range of text (see `:h visual-repeat`).

Method 2

- `gUit`
- `j.`
- `j.`

The Visual mode `U` command has a Normal mode equivalent: `gU{motion}` (`:h gU`).

How to paste from Windows system clipboard in Vim?

Just `p` uses so-called unnamed register, which is basically an alias for the last register used. On the other hand, both `"*p` and `"+p` always put the contents of the system clipboard at the cursor position. See `h: registers`.

How to copy to Windows system clipboard in Vim?

The `*` register will do this. In Windows, `+` and `*` are equivalent.

For copying something to the clipboard register, you type `"*y` and then to put you type `"*p`.

How to add backticks in pair for selected text in Vim?

How to delete auto indented bullet points in Vim?

## Tip 24. Edit Tabular Data with Visual-Block Mode

We can work with rows of text in any editor, but manipulating columns of text requires a more specialized tool. Vim provides this capacity in the form of its Visual-Block mode, which we'll use to transform a plain-text table.

```md
| Chapter     | Page |
| ----------- | ---- |
| Normal mode | 15   |
| Insert mode | 31   |
| Visual mode | 44   |
```

## Tip 25. Change Columns of Text

We can use Visual-Block mode to insert text into several lines of text simultaneously.

```css
li.one a {
  background-image: url("/images/sprite.png");
}
li.two a {
  background-image: url("/images/sprite.png");
}
li.three a {
  background-image: url("/images/sprite.png");
}
```

## Tip 26. Append After a Ragged Visual Block

Visual-Block mode is great for operating on rectangular chunks of code such as lines and columns, but it's not confined to rectangular regions of text.

```js
var foo = 1;
var bar = "a";
var foobar = foo + bar;
```

Marking text (visual mode)

- `v` - start visual mode, mark lines, then do a command (like y-yank)
- `V` - start linewise visual mode
- `o` - move to other end of marked area
- `Ctrl` + `v` - start visual block mode
- `O` - move to other corner of block
- `aw` - mark a word
- `ab` - a block with `()`
- `aB` - a block with `{}`
- `at` - a block with `<>` tags
- `ib` - inner block with `()`
- `iB` - inner block with `{}`
- `it` - inner block with `<>` tags
- `Esc` or `Ctrl` + `c` - exit visual mode

::: tip
Instead of `b` or `B` one can also use `(` or `{` respectively.
:::

Visual commands

- `>` - shift text right
- `<` - shift text left
- `y` - yank (copy) marked text
- `d` - delete marked text
- `~` - switch case
- `u` - change marked text to lowercase
- `U` - change marked text to uppercase
