---
title: 09.Navigate Between Files with Jumps
date: 2024-10-20 13:12:23
permalink: /pages/c8a8b5/
categories: 
  - editor
tags: 
  - editor
  - Vim
---

Motions allow us to move around within a file
Jumps are similar, except that they can also move us between files

Vim provides a couple of commands that turn keywords in the document into a warmhole, allowing us to jump quickly from one part of our codebase to another. That might seem disorienting at first, but Vim always traces our path by leaving a trail that we can easily follow to get back to where we came from.

## 56. Traverse the Jump List

Vim records our location before and after making a jump and provides a couple of commands for retracing our steps.

jump list `:jumps`

- `<C-o>` back button
- `<C-i>` forward button

- motions move around _within_ a file
- jumps move _between_ files
- some motions are also classified as jumps

Any command that changes the active file for the current window can be described as a jump. In the jump list, Vim records the cursor location before and after running such a command.

- `:edit` command to open a new file
- `[count]G` moving directly to a line number
- The sentence-wise and paragraph-wise motions are jumps

This table summarizes a selection of jumps:

| Command                               | Effect                                         |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `[count]G`                            | Jump to a line number                          |
| /pattern`<CR>`/?pattern`<CR>`/`n`/`N` | Jump to next/previous occurrence of pattern    |
| `%`                                   | Jump to match parenthesis                      |
| `(`/`)`                               | Jump to start of previous/next sentence        |
| `{`/`}`                               | Jump to start of previous/next paragraph       |
| `H`/`M`/`L`                           | Jump to top/middle/bottom of screen            |
| `gf`                                  | Jump to file name under the cursor             |
| `<C-]`                                | Jump to definition of keyword under the cursor |
| `'{mark}`/<code>\`{mark}</code>       | Jump to a mark                                 |

Test the `gf` command with below:

1. Place cursor on the the file name
2. Run `gf` in Normal mode
3. Vim will open this config file
4. Use `<C-o>` to back out
5. Use `<C-i>` to back in

`C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua`

Test this command `gf` once again after you introduce some more colorschemes from the plugin.

Under some unknown conditions, sometimes (mostly likely after you've done some motions) when you run `gf` command in Neovim, you'll get the following alert message:

`E447: Can't find file "\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua" in path`

Problem 3

Under certain circumstances, the `gf` inside Neovim does not work as expected and triggers error message `E447: Can't find file "\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\plugins\nvim-tree.lua" in path`. This has something to do with the escape of character `\`.

Rewrite `\` inside path with `/`: `C:/Users/Alowr/AppData/Local/nvim/lua/alowree/plugins/nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.
Rewrite `\` inside path with `\\`: `C:\\Users\\lowr\\AppData\\Local\\nvim\\lua\\alowree\\plugins\\nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.

By comparison, the `gf` inside Vim works on all three representations.

See `:h gf` and `:h path`.

## 57. Traverse the Change List

## 58. Jump to the Filename Under the Cursor

_Vim treats filenames in our documents as a kind of hyperlink. When configured properly, we can use the `gf` command to go the filename under the cursor._

Test 1: the `gf` command

1. Place cursor on the the file name
2. Run `gf` in Normal mode
3. Vim will open this config file
4. Use `<C-o>` to back out
5. Use `<C-i>` to back in

Test 2: the `<C-w> gf` command

1. open the file under curso in a new tab

`C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua`

Test this command `gf` once again after you introduce some more colorschemes from the plugin.

Under some unknown conditions, sometimes (mostly likely after you've done some motions) when you run `gf` command in Neovim, you'll get the following alert message:

`E447: Can't find file "\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua" in path`

Problem 3

Under certain circumstances, the `gf` inside Neovim does not work as expected and triggers error message `E447: Can't find file "\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\plugins\nvim-tree.lua" in path`. This has something to do with the escape of character `\`.

Rewrite `\` inside path with `/`: `C:/Users/Alowr/AppData/Local/nvim/lua/alowree/plugins/nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.
Rewrite `\` inside path with `\\`: `C:\\Users\\lowr\\AppData\\Local\\nvim\\lua\\alowree\\plugins\\nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.

By comparison, the `gf` inside Vim works on all three representations.

See `:h gf` and `:h path`.

### Specifiy a File Extension

See `:h 'suffixesadd'`

### Specifiy the Directories to Look Inside

See `:h 'path'`

[Tip 103,Configure Vim to Work with ctages]()
[Tip 104,Navigate Keyword Definitions with Vim's Tag Navigation Commands]()

While the jump list and change list are like breadcrumb trails that allow us to retrace our steps, the `gf` and `<C-]>` commands provide wormholes that transport us from one part of our codebase to another.

Question

How to quickly add the filename into the current buffer?

To yank from the register `%` from the Insert mode: `<C-r>%`

- `%` 全路径的文件名
- `%:h` 全路径，不包括文件名。如 `D:\folder\hello\world.c` 则值为 `D:\folder\hello`
- `%:t` 文件名的尾部。例如 `../path/test.c` 就会为 `test.c`
- `%:r` 无扩展名的文件名。例如 `../path/test` 就会成为 `test`
- `%:e` 扩展名

## 59. Snap Between Files Using Global Marks

A global mark is a kind of bookmark that allows us to jump between files. Marks can be especially useful for snapping back to a file after exploring a codebase.

The `m{letter}` command allows us to create a mark at the current cursor position (`:h m`). Lowercase letters create marks that are local to a buffer, whereas uppercase letters create global marks. Having set a mark, we can snap our cursor back to it with the <code>\`{letter}</code> command (<code>:h \`</code>).

### Set a Global Mark Before Goging Code Diving

Global marks can be specifically useful when we need to browse through a set of files and then quickly snap back to where we started.

Remember, you can set up to twenty-six global marks, which is more than you'll ever need. Use them liberally; set a global mark any time you see something that you might want to snap back to later.

Use case

1. Open the keymaps config file in path `C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua`, add a line of comment `-- C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua` to the first line to indicate its path, and then save the file
2. On this newly added first line, run `mK` to leave a global mark
3. From any project folder within Vim, run <code>`K</code> to pull up the keymaps config file

The key message is that once a global mark is set, Vim will remember it, across folders and files, even if you quit and re-enter Vim. Once set, the global mark will always be there until it is overwritten.

### Marks and positions

- `:marks` - list of marks
- `ma` - set current position for mark A
- <code>\`a</code> - jump to position of mark A
- <code>y\`a</code> - yank text to position of mark A
- <code>\`0</code> - go to the position where Vim was previously exited
- <code>\`"</code> - go to the position when last editing this file
- <code>\`.</code> - go to the position of the last change in this file
- <code>\`\`</code> - go to the position before the last jump
- `:ju[mps]` - list of jumps
- `Ctrl` + `i` - go to newer position in jump list
- `Ctrl` + `o` - go to older position in jump list
- `:changes` - list of changes
- `g,` - go to newer position in change list
- `g;` - go to older position in change list
- `Ctrl` + `]` - jump to the tag under cursor

::: tip

To jump to a mark you can either use a backtick (<code>`</code>) or an apostrophe (<code>'</code>). Using an apostrophe jumps to the beginning (first non-blank) of the line holding the mark.

:::
