---
title: 10.Copy and Paste
date: 2024-10-26 16:20:47
permalink: /pages/61699d/
categories: 
  - editor
tags: 
  - editor
  - Vim
---

## 60. Delete, Yank, and Put with Vim's Unnamed Register

_Vim’s delete, yank, and put commands are designed to make common tasks easy by default. We’ll study a few problems that can easily be solved using Vim’s unnamed register, and then we’ll finish by looking at a task that requires a better understanding of how Vim’s registers work._

In Tip 61, Grok Vim's Registers, we’ll see that Vim has multiple registers, and we can specify which ones we want to use. But let’s start off by looking at what can be done using the _unnamed register_.

- `xp` "Transpose the next two characters"
- `ddp` "Transpose the order of this line and its successor"
- `yyp` duplicate the current line

Done by the unnamed register, but won't work if the unnamed register gets overwritten by `diw`

## 61. Grok Vim's Register

### Addressing a Register

`"{register}` specify which register we want to use

- `"ayw` yank the current word into register `a`
- `"ayy` yank the current line into register `a`
- `"bdd` cut the current line into register `b`
- `"ap` paste the word from register `a`
- `"bp` paste the line from register `b`

### The Unnamed Register

`""` see `:h quote_quote`

The `x` and `d{motion}` are usually referred to as "delete" commands. This is a misnomer. It's better to think of them as "cut" commands.

### The Yank Register

`"0` see `:h quote0`

- `""p`
- `"0p`
- `p`

- Numbered register 0 contains the text from the most recent yank command
- Numbered register 1 contains the text deleted by the most recent delete or change command
- With each successive deletion or change, Vim shifts the previous contents of register 1 into register 2, 2 into 3, and so forth, losing the previous contents of register 9

`:reg` inspect the contents of unnamed and yank registers

### The Named Registers

`"a`-`"z` see `:h quote_alpha`

- `"ad{motion}`
- `"ay{motion}`
- `"ap`

- lowercase letter, it overwrites the specified register
- uppercase letter, it appends to the specified register

### The Black Hole Register

`"_` see `:h quote_`

- `"_d{motion}` deletes without saving a copy

### The System Clipboard and Selection Registers

`"+` system clipboard, see `:h quote+`
`"*` primary, see `:h quotestar`

In Windows and Mac OS X, there is no primary clipboard, so we can use the `"+` and `"*` registers interchangeably: they both represent the system clipboard.

### The Expression Register

`"=` see `:h quote=`

Read and test the examples in the book.

### More Registers

We can set the contents of the named, unnamed, and yank registers explicitly using the delete and yank commands.

Read-only registers (`:h quote.`)

- `"%` Name of the current file
- `"#` Name of the alternate file
- `".` Last inserted text
- `":` Last Ex command
- `"/` Last search pattern

## 62. Replacee a Visual Selection with a Register

## 63. Paste from a Register

The Normal mode put command can behave differently, depending on the nature of the text that is being inserted. It can be helpful to adopt different strategies, depending on whether we're pasting a line-wise or a character-wise region of text.

### Pasting Character-wise Regions

### Pasting Line-wise Regions

### Discussion

The `p` and `P` commands are great for pasting multiline regions of text. But for short sections of character-wise text, the `<C-r>{register}` mapping can be more intuitive.

## 64. Interact with the System Clipboard

Besides Vim's built-in put commands, we can sometimes use the system paste command. However, using this can occasionally produce unexpected results when running Vim inside a terminal. We can avoid these issues by enabling the 'paste' option before using the system paste command.

### Preparation

### Locating the System Paste Command

### Using the System Paste Command in Insert Mode

### Avoid Toggling 'paste' by Putting from the Plus Register
