---
title: Social Media Marketing
date: 2024-09-29 12:04:14
permalink: /pages/f486fd/
categories: 
  - 市场营销
tags: 
  - 市场营销
---

## Keywords and hashtags

### Sound Rise II

The Sound Rise II does not have a built-in battery, so it is _not_ a portable speaker and it is inappropriate to use the hashtag #portablespeaker. Please remove this hashtag from all posts related to the Sound Rise II.

Suggested keywords for hashtag constructs for Sound Rise II: soundfreaq, clock radio, fm radio, bedroom clock radio, bluetooth speaker, wireless speaker, bedside table speaker, desktop speaker, alarm clock, alarm clock radio, radio alarm clock, alarm clock speaker, bluetooth alarm clock, nature sound machine, charging station, phone charger, usb charger, wireless charging, qi charging, hotel alarm clock, digital clock, hotel speaker

### Sound Spot II

The Sound Spot II does not have the wireless charging / alarm clock features, so it is inappropriate to use the hashtags such as #wirelesscharger, #alarmclock or #chargingstation. Please remove these hashtags from all posts related to the Sound Spot II.

Suggested keywords for hashtag constructs for Sound Spot II: soundfreaq, bluetooth speaker, wireless speaker, portable speaker, travel speaker, flat speaker, outdoor speaker, desktop speaker, phone charger, usb charger, speakerphone, speaker with microphone, nature sound machine, hotel speaker

### Charge Rise II

The Charge Rise II has no speaker function, so please remove the hashtags #speakerbluetooth, #wirelessspeaker and #portablespeaker from all posts related to the Charge Rise II.

Suggested keywords for hashtag constructs for Charge Rise II: soundfreaq, alarm clock, digital clock, phone charger, usb charger, wireless charging, qi charging, dual alarms, charging station, hotel alarm clock

## Text styles

p10, the PS'ed image does not look natural:

- The size of the Sound Rise II is out of proportion (larger) to other devices such as the size of the PC
- The size of the image displayed on the PC screen is vertically stretched and distorted

Could you please redo this post and I can provide some more photos of the Sound Rise II.

p14, the 2nd bullet point, change from "Ambient Light" to "Ambient light" to be consistent with other bullet points

p24, remove the trailing period (.) after "in your hotel"

p30, the PS'ed photo of the Sound Rise II on a bedside table looks fake, as the two photos use different angles.

Could you please redo this post and I can provide some more photos of Sound Rise II.

p37, the bullets have some style consistency issues that need to be addressed. Suggest revising from 7 bullets to 5 bullets and removing the trailing dots, as follows:

- Bluetooth Wireless
- Bass Boost DSP
- Stereo Mode
- Ambient Light
- Volume Limiter

or

- Bluetooth wireless
- Bass boost DSP
- Stereo mode
- Ambient light
- Volume limiter

p39, change from hyphen (-) to Em dash (—), as follows:

Jungle — Back to 74

p40,

- Wording: the 3rd bullet point in the middle, revise to "Bass Boost DSP"
- Style consistency (all capitalized):
  - Bluetooth Wireless
  - Personal Speakerphone
  - Bass Boost DSP
  - Free Shipping

p42, change from hyphen (-) to Em dash (—), as follows:

Riptide — Vance Joy

p43, delete the trailing period (.) after "Sound Spot II"

## 1030 feedback

### 23.mp4

- The product name labels are vertically centred and overlap the product images, especially when they are on top of the product displays/screens, making them difficult to read. Could you please move the labels up/down to make them easier to read?
- At 24 seconds, the caption is not properly structured - it should always have "soundfreaq.com" on the same line.

### 29.mp4

- At 10 seconds, the caption needs to be revised according to the feedback already given on p37

### 8.mp4

- At 16 seconds, the product name in the caption is incorrect. Please change from "Sound Rise II" to "Charge Rise II"
- At 27 seconds, the product name in the caption is incorrect. Please add "II" after "Sound Spot" to make it "Sound Spot II"

p34, the PS'ed image does not look natural:

- The size of the Charge Rise II is out of proportion (looks much larger) to other devices such as the size of the table.
- This picture was not provided by me, so I assume you probably downloaded it from the Soundfreaq website, which also needs to be fixed.
- Could you please redo this post as well and I will create a new folder "SFQ-20 Charge Rise II" to share some photos.

## 1101 feedback

### p33

The hashtags for this post of the Sound Rise II (for 25.png) are incorrect. #portablespeaker, #travelspeaker, #outdoorspeaker, and #speakerphone are not relevant to this indoor product. Please revise with correct hashtags.

### p35

The product name in the text of this post (for 27.png) "Sound Spot II" is incorrect. Please revise it to "Sound Rise II". Sorry for not catching this error in the previous reviews.

### 8.mp4

1. at 16 seconds, the caption for Charge Rise II is not easy to read.

Suggest changing from

Our Charge
Rise II will
be your ally.

to

Charge Rise II  
will be your ally.

This keeps the product name "Charge Rise II" on one line and makes it easier to read.

2. Another problem I noticed is that this video clip 8.mp4 no longer has an audio track and is silent when the video is played. Is the original audio deliberately deleted or is it missing when exporting the new video? Is it possible to add the audio track back to this video?
