---
title: Post Design 2nd Round
date: 2025-01-22 14:12:15
permalink: /pages/b43372/
categories:
  - 市场营销
tags:
  - 市场营销
---

## Overview

Thank you Groowly team for the nice work!

The theme design is well accepted and appreciated.

The main font using Knockout for caption titles and Poppins for text content is accepted for this 2nd project. For our next project (the 3rd), we'll consider providing another Soundfreaq custom font for text content to replace Poppins.

We also love the post text content, which is expressed in idiomatic, everyday American English.

The image selection and cropping of the photos provided is very well done. However, the AI-generated or Photoshopped images have some problems, the use scenarios are spot on, but the products in most cases do not look natural. Either because of wrong position or wrong proportions.

Below are some suggested design changes for your consideration. Most of the suggested changes are minor typos or style issues, with the redesign of post 1 and post 3 being the main focus. The biggest challenge is really post 3, which is to provide the user with an easy to follow step-by-step guide with eye-catching icons or graphics instead of a boring text-only user guide.

## p9 in PDF, post 1

Can you please redo this post, especially to improve the image design?

As a reference, the image design for p32 in PDF, post 24 is much better done with AI or PS.

## p11 in PDF, post 3

As I said, this could be a challenge, so I try to provide the guideline as detailed as possible. You can just use the text content as is, but lend some iconic or graphical elements to the post design.

1st image

- This FAQ is about Sound Rise II, but the selected background image is from Sound Spot II. Please change to another image with the correct Sound Rise II.

2nd image, both the text content and the layout style to be revised. Suggested text content as follows:

::: tip Step One: Set the Alarm Time

1. Press the `ALARM SET` button and the alarm time will start flashing.
2. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select your alarm time and press `ENTER` to confirm.
3. The alarm will go off and the `ALARM ON` icon will be displayed.
4. Press the `ALARM ON/OFF` button to turn the alarm on or off.

:::

Change the layout style from conversational bubbles to ordered list for easy understanding considerations. Since this is a step-by-step user guide... this suggested style change also applies to the other two FAQ entries, post 11 and post 16.

Add a 3rd image with the following text content:

::: tip Step Two: Set the Alert Mode

1. Press and hold the `MODE` button for 2 seconds to enter the alarm mode setting, the source icons on the left will start flashing.
2. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the alarm sound: Bluetooth, FM Radio, or the built-in chime, and then press the `ENTER` button to confirm.
3. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the day you want the alarm to go off, and then press the `ENTER` button to confirm.  
   a. `d-1` means on Monday  
   b. `d-2` means on Tuesday  
   c. ...  
   d. `d-7` means on Sunday  
   e. `1-7` means on all seven days of the week  
   f. `1-5` means on every five working days  
   g. `6-7` means on the two weekend days
4. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the maximum alarm volume and press the `ENTER` button to confirm.

:::

Add a 4th page (with attached either post-3-image-4.1 or post-3-image-4.2) with an additional tip:

::: tip
When you have finished setting the alarm, short press the `MODE` button to display the current alarm mode setting for 5 seconds, so that you know which alarm sound, which day(s), and what maximum alarm volume your alarm is set to.
:::

::: info

The alarm on your Sound Rise II is set to use Bluetooth as the alarm tone, with a maximum alarm volume of 20, to go off at 5:30 a.m. every working day, Monday through Friday, and the current alarm status is ON.

:::

## p13 in PDF, text content for post 5.mp4

- Revise from "10 hours" to "12 hours"

## p19 in PDF, post 11

- This FAQ is about Charge Rise II, but the selected background image is of Sound Spot II. Please change for a different image with the correct Charge Rise II.

## p21 in PDF, post 13

- The two caption lines on the image overlap
- Maybe increase the line height to separate them more?
- Missing hashtags for this post

## p25 in PDF, text content for post 17.mp4

- Remove "the soothing sounds of nature,"
- because the three alarm sound options include Bluetooth, FM radio, or built-in chime, but not Nature Sound or AUX-IN

## p31 in PDF, post 23.mp4

All three product names are mixed up in the video and should be revised:

- 04s, revise the video caption from "Sound Rise II" to "Sound Spot II"
- 06s, revise the video caption from "Sound Rise II" to "Sound Spot II"
- 07s, revise the video caption from "Charge Rise II" to "Sound Rise II"
- 08s, revise the video caption from "Charge Rise II" to "Sound Rise II"
- 09s, revise the video caption from "Sound Spot II" to "Charge Rise II"
- 11s, revise the video caption from "Sound Spot II" to "Charge Rise II"

## p33 in PDF, post 25

- Revise battery life from "10 hours" to "12 hours

## p40 in PDF, Stories 2

- Increase line height so letters "y" and "f" do not overlap

## p41 in PDF, Stories 3

1st image on the left:

- "Sound Rise II", should be removed from the first bullet point, and added to the title or subtitle.

Last image on the right:

- Change "10 hours" to "12 hours".

## p42 in PDF, Stories 4

Last picture on the right:

- The letters "y" (nobody) and "i" (watching) overlap, an extra space would be nice.

## p43 in PDF, Stories 5

Last picture on the right:

- Suspected typo: Letter "t" (tHeads will roll) should be removed?

---

Following is the feedback for 2nd round review on 2025-01-26:

## image design for post 3

- 3.png: approved
- 3.1.png: approved
- 3.2.png: The last bullet on 3.4 (after 3.g) should be removed as it is a duplication of bullet 4.
- 3.3.png: Can you include a photo I submitted two days ago? The photo with the highlight on the LCD screen complements the descriptive INFO section. Without it, the reader has no idea what the INFO section is about. The photo provides an example of checking the alarm mode, and the INFO section provides an interpretation of the alarm mode as it appears on the display.

## p12 in PDF, text content for post 4

> If you feel like your nightstand is missing something, it's our Sound Rise II.

Revise from "Sound Rise II" to "Charge Rise II"

## p19 in PDF, post 11

- This FAQ is about Charge Rise II, but the selected background image is of Sound Spot II. Please change for a different image with the correct Charge Rise II.
- Raising this change request for the 2nd time

## p33, image and text content do not match each other

- the post image is of Sound Spot II
- the text content is about Charge Rise II
- Please change either the image or the text content so they match each other

## p43 in PDF, Stories 5

Picture in the middle

- Revise from "Black Edition" to "Black"
- Revise from "Hotel Edition" to "Wood Taupe"
