---
title: 05.Sound Rise II — FAQ
date: 2024-07-08 09:11:20
permalink: /pages/52d6f4/
categories: 
  - Soundfreaq
tags: 
  - Soundfreaq
  - Sound Rise II
---

::: details How to set the alarm on Sound Rise II?

There are two steps to setting the alarm on your Sound Rise II: setting the alarm time and setting the alarm mode.

Step One: Set the Alarm Time

1. Press the `ALARM SET` button and the alarm time will start flashing.
2. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select your alarm time and press `ENTER` to confirm.
3. The alarm will go off and the `ALARM ON` icon will be displayed.
4. Press the `ALARM ON/OFF` button to turn the alarm on or off.

Usually, this step is intuitive and users can do it without reading the manual.

Step Two: Set the Alert Mode

1. Press and hold the `MODE` button for 2 seconds to enter the alarm mode setting, the source icons on the left will start flashing.
2. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the alarm sound: Bluetooth, FM Radio, or the built-in chime, and then press the `ENTER` button to confirm.
3. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the day you want the alarm to go off, and then press the `ENTER` button to confirm.  
   a. `d-1` means on Monday  
   b. `d-2` means on Tuesday  
   c. ...  
   d. `d-7` means on Sunday  
   e. `1-7` means on all seven days of the week  
   f. `1-5` means on every five working days  
   g. `6-7` means on the two weekend days
4. Turn the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the maximum alarm volume and press the `ENTER` button to confirm.

Note: By default, the maximum alarm volume is set to level 15. This means that when the alarm goes off, the alarm volume will gradually increase from level 0 to level 15. In early production batches, the maximum alarm volume can be set between [10,30], but cannot be set below 10. This is to ensure that users don't potentially miss low volume alarms. Starting with new production batches from 2025, the maximum alarm volume can be set between [1,30], which gives the user more flexibility in setting the maximum volume, but be reminded to test it before putting it into real use and not to miss any alarms due to low volume.

If you would like to see a video of how to set the alarms on your Sound Rise II, here is a YouTube video made by Jack Picks:

https://youtu.be/3o7qBoRQqsk?si=nArOE4rZnJjKOqYI
:::

::: details Do both the Sound Rise and Sound Rise II have dual alarms?

- Sound Rise SFQ-08 has dual alarms with weekday/weekend settings.
- Sound Rise II SFQ-16 only has a single alarm with weekday/weekend settings.

Several reviewers say they prefer the older version because of the dual alarm feature. If you're an old Soundfreaq fan and consider "dual alarm" to be an important feature in your daily life, we recommend you take a look at the Sound Rise DAB SFQ-17. Contact support@soundfreaq.com for more information.

:::

::: details Do both the Sound Rise and Sound Rise II have a gradually increasing volume, and how long does it increases for?

Both SKUs support progressive volume on alarm. The volume has a level of [0,30]. The user can set a maximum volume for the alarm in the range of [10,30], both inclusive. The default setting for the maximum alarm volume is 15, but the user can select any volume within the range [10,30].
As the Sound Rise II has a PROGRESSIVE WAKE-UP VOLUME design, this means that when the alarm goes off, the volume will start from 0 and gradually increase to the maximum volume set by the user within 1 minute.

Below are some examples with different maximum alarm volume settings for levels 10/20/30:

- 10: Volume gradually increases from 0 to 10 over 60 seconds
- 20: Volume gradually increases from 0 to 20 over 60 seconds
- 30: volume gradually increases from 0 to 30 over 60 seconds

It's true, however, that for existing production batches, the user cannot set this maximum volume below 10, as it would be inaudible to some users in deep sleep. Again, this is a deliberate design choice that some users don't seem to like. We have decided to remove this locking mechanism from future builds starting with 2024-07-01.

:::

::: details How long will the alarm go off if I don’t turn it off?

The alarm will go on for 60 minutes if without any human intervention.

:::

::: details Can the alarm be set on Bluetooth or aux input on both models?

- Wake up alarm sound for Sound Rise, SFQ-08: Bluetooth, FM radio, Line in or built-in chime.
- Wake up alarm sound for Sound Rise II, SFQ-16: Bluetooth, FM radio, or built-in chime, but Line-in not available.

:::

::: details Also I’m in Canada and it looks like I can’t purchase from your website. I will not use Amazon. Do I have an alternative?

- If the shopper purchases from our website [soundfreaq.com](https://soundfreaq.com/), we are currently unable to ship to Canada. You will have to consider other options such as forwarding service.
- If the shopper purchases from [Amazon.ca](https://amazon.ca/), there is an option for "Remote Fulfillment with FBA", which means that Amazon can ship from its fulfilment centers in the USA to Canada.

:::

::: details I have this nice and expensive alarm clock. I love it. I wanted to start using the AUX 3.5 mm corded headphones at night. And I can’t get any sound out of the headphones.

Thank you for being a Soundfreaq customer, and we hope you’re loving your Sound Rise II! Let’s clarify the difference between AUX IN and AUDIO OUT for your speaker:

AUX IN (Auxiliary Input): The 3.5mm jack on the back of your Sound Rise II is designed to receive audio from devices like smartphones, MP3 players, or tablets. Think of it as a “door” that lets music into the speaker. For example, with an audio cable you could plug your phone into this jack to play music through the speaker.

AUDIO OUT (Audio Output): This type of port sends audio out to headphones, external speakers, or other devices. Unfortunately, the Sound Rise II doesn’t have this feature—its 3.5mm jack is input-only. This means you can’t use it to connect wired headphones for private listening.

Key Takeaway: While AUX IN and AUDIO OUT jacks look identical, they work in opposite directions. Your speaker’s jack is strictly for receiving audio, not sending it out.

Does this make sense? Feel free to ask if you’d like further details—we’re happy to help!

Thanks again for choosing Soundfreaq.

:::
