---
date: 2026-03-05 13:51:41
title: lifetime-campaign
permalink: /pages/2404f3
categories:
  - Python
---
Over the last two years, for each Soundfreaq product I have a manually maintained a master ads report (.xlsx) to track the performance metrics. Within the master workbook, I have several worksheets:

- Campaigns
- Bid adjustments
- Targeting
- Search terms
- Negative keywords

The "Campaigns" worksheet for Sound Rise II Ads is maintained (download lifetime data at each time stamp, copy and paste aggregate date at the bottom, then do the delta between two time stamps to obtain the internal deltas) all manually. Now now I'm migrating from manual report to Python automation (using python-amazon-ad-api). In order for me to achieve a similar report structure, point me to the correct end points that I should implement in my Python scripts for my ads campaigns management. If I want to obtain the lifetime data of a campaign, which end points I should consider?

Is it possible to request lifetime performance metrics from amazon ads api?

No, it is not possible to request "lifetime" performance metrics in a single request via the Amazon Ads API. Unlike the Amazon Ads console, which offers a "Lifetime" date range, the API is designed for granular, time-bound data retrieval with strict retention limits.

If that is the case, I want to build a workflow for automation tools to download the campaign report inside a browser. For instance, use Python + Selenium + Panda (or any similar tools) to perform the following automated tasks:

1. login to sellcentral.amazon.com with my advertising account username and password
2. go to campaign manager page through link https://advertising.amazon.com/campaign-manager?ref_=xx_cmpmgr_favb_xx&merchantId=A1ZU3V2ZXZ5QHR&locale=en_US&ref=RedirectedFromSellerCentralByRoutingService&entityId=ENTITYLLOC1KH6H4PA
3. find and click "Campaign" on sidebar
4. set Filter to "Active status: Enabled"
5. type "Sound Rise II" in search field (there are other two products, "Charge Rise II" and "sfq-18")
6. set the report duration to "Lifetime"
7. click "Export" button and then click "Download" in drop down menu for a .csv report to be downloaded and saved locally (in `~/Downloads` folder)
8. copy data from the .csv report
9. find and open the most recent master .xlsx report, find "Campaigns" worksheet, append the copied data to the very bottom
10. do the `total` in the row right beneath the pasted data
11. do the interval delta between today's `total` and the last `total`

To make this automated workflow work, we need to perform data cleaning and format resetting as the prep for the "Campaigns" worksheet.
