---
title: Krista S. from Canada
date: 2024-11-19 11:35:52
permalink: /pages/78cca4/
categories: 
  - Soundfreaq
tags: 
  - Soundfreaq
  - Messages from Users
---

---------- Forwarded message ---------  
From: Krista S.  
Date: Mon, Nov 11, 2024 at 06:07  
Subject: Re: READY TO ORDER your fabulous alarm clock - for Canadian resident  
To: SFQ Lisa

Dear Lisa,

I think I am more than ready to order this alarm clock. I was wondering we could talk on the phone today in order to expedite and so I could give you my Visa.

My clock's display was really on the fritz last night. At some points it went dark when I hit snooze and the time did not show as all and I was worried if the clock would go off at all. So I kept pulling out the electrical cord to see if that would help. I slept with one eye open!

Would the UK version have a different electrical plug? When it arrives to you in the US, do you think you could swap it out for a US electrical plug please before it is shipped to me? Most importantly, can it be set to 120 Volts for North American outlets. That's VERY IMPORTANT.

Can we chat today? Can I get your phone #?

I gave your clock to my friend and her husband during Christmas about 7 years ago as they offered to give me their clock, but I am calling them today to see if I can loan it for a week or two. They are retired, but I am still working and they know I get up at 4AM to go to work.

Thanks so much!!!

K

Kris S.

On Thu., Nov. 7, 2024, 4:02 p.m. SFQ Lisa, wrote:

Hi Krista, thank you for the lovely response, and yes, I told the team this user is a huge fan if they're willing to buy two alarm clocks to circumvent the one alarm feature, which I'd hate to see you do!

You've asked some important questions, and I've forwarded to the team to get more detailed answers for you.

1. TIME/DAY/DATE DISPLAY: The DAB alarm clock will display the time, day and date, see attached photos for reference. (In case you're curious, the photo is of a sample black Sound Rise DAB, which never went into production. I, too, personally prefer the Wood + Taupe.)

2. REMOVAL OF TWO ALARMS: One of the main reasons for removing the dual alarm from the Sound Rise II SFQ-16 is that there are more features packed into the SFQ-16 than its predecessor. We did not have enough space for additional buttons and controls on the product, so it was a difficult decision to make.

3. SNOOZE BUTTON BEHAVIOR: For the Sound Rise, pressing the snooze button turns the light on for 8 seconds and then off again, this feature is the same on the DAB version (and the Sound Rise II).

4. SALES TAX: We would be charging you US$129 exactly (no tax will be charged), but as always you may be charged custom duties when the order enters Canada. Unfortunately, we cannot give a definitive answer on how much you will be charged, as we are not knowledgeable about duties. We always suggest contacting the customs agency directly.

Let me know if we missed anything, and if you have any other questions.

On Wed, 6 Nov 2024 at 19:08, Krista S. wrote:

Hello SoundFreaq,

Thank you so much for your detailed and thoughtful reply. I think you were able to tell that I must really love your clock to hunt for the same one so aggressively. One huge thing I liked about my clock is that the day is the week showed on the front display. I like knowing what DAY of the week it is when I wake up, as I work only 3 days a week now, but I didn't notice the day showing on the front of the UK version of the clock that you sent to me. Is the day not available on the UK version?

Also I am curious why you changed your clocks to just 1 alarm. It's very handy to have 2 alarms. I've never trusted the "snooze" option so I've always had 2 alarms.

Also, on my clock, if you press the snooze button in the middle of the night, it shows the time for about 8 seconds and then it goes 100% dark again. Is that fearure available on the UK version too? I don't much care about the radio aspect. It's the alarms, ease of use, and reliability of the clock.

I actually gave the same clock to my friend for Christmas about 7 years ago and I was tempted to ask for it back! I guess it would not be cool to do that...🙂

US$129 includes shipping to Canada but what taxes would I be hit with coming across the border? Just HST?

Your customer service is really excellent.

Thanks again!

K

PS I prefer the taupe color anyway!

Kris S. ❄️ GMAIL

On Wed., Nov. 6, 2024, 11:07 a.m. SFQ Lisa, wrote:

Hi Krista, I spoke to the team and instead of recommending the Charge Rise II, for dual alarms we recommend the Sound Rise with DAB SFQ-17 (UK): <https://www.amazon.co.uk/Soundfreaq-Sound-Rise-DAB-SFQ-17/dp/B0DFG98C7B/>

Here is the manual for the Sound Rise DAB (UK), it looks very similar to the Sound Rise II (US) SFQ-16 you were looking at, but comes with dual alarms, and FM and digital DAB radio. <https://soundfreaq.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Soundfreaq_Sound-Rise-DAB_SFQ-17_UserManual_241011.pdf>

There are other design differences we'd like to point out as I know you preferred the features of your SFQ-08 Sound Rise:

1. The overall brightness of the screen on the Sound Rise DAB SFQ-17 (UK) is relatively darker than the Sound Rise SFQ-08, but it does have a 6-step dimming control and can go completely dark.
2. The font size of the clock digits on the UK version is relatively smaller than the US version, and the colon between the HOUR and MINUTE digits do not flash by the second, but remain solidly lit.
3. The two USB charging ports on the UK version are located at the bottom of the back of the speaker, while the US are located at the top of the speaker near the controls.
4. The DAB/DAB+ radio function most likely will not work in Canada, but the speaker also comes with FM radio which will work.
5. Please note the UK version is only available in Wood + Taupe color, not in Black.

If you're interested in purchasing the unit, our office in China will fulfill your order for the Sound Rise DAB (UK) model, shipped directly to your address in Canada. We would email you a personalized invoice for US$129, which will include shipping costs.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

On Tue, 5 Nov 2024 at 15:34, Krista S. wrote:

Does that mean I would need to buy 2 clocks?

The 2nd alarm was really convenient as I get up at 4 AM and then the 2nd alarm is 445 AM. Too difficult and too sleepy to reset it. I worry the alarm on the smaller clock you have for $39 that the buttons may be too small. The best feature of your clock was the two alarms and the fact that it goes completely dark. It is hard to get clocks that go fully dark. I don't suppose you have any of your old clocks available with 2 alarms? I would pay the same price. Thanks.

Kris S.

On Tue., Nov. 5, 2024, 4:01 p.m. SFQ Lisa, wrote:

Hi Krista, thank you for being a Soundfreaq customer, and I'm sorry to hear your current Sound Rise is experiencing issues. As you already know, unfortunately we do not ship to Canada from our website. We suggest international orders to shop through Amazon.com or use a package forwarding service.

We do offer a 30% off coupon code for returning customers who are out of the one year warranty. It is valid for any speaker priced up to $100 in our Online Store (US shipping only), limit one use per customer. <https://soundfreaq.com/shop/>

Please note the original Sound Rise is no longer available, but has been replaced by the Sound Rise II. Please note there are some changes to the speaker's features, such as it now has only one alarm option instead of two, more USB charge ports, and built-in nature sounds. Please see the manual for more info: <https://soundfreaq.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/SFQ-16-Sound-Rise-II-User-Guide-ENGLISH-Retail-Version-220106Q_compressed-1-1.pdf>

I apologize for the inconvenience and that I could not be of more help. Any questions, please let me know.

On Tue, 5 Nov 2024 at 01:24, Krista S. wrote:

I have had one of your alarm clocks for about 10+ years.

Not sure where I night it but I don't think you deliver to Canada.

Where can I buy one here?

My beloved clocks is on the fritz.

I want to buy a new one. I don't want to use my cell phone as an alarm clock. I like my SoundFreaq!

I hope there is a way I can get one here.

Thanks.

Kris S., ON Canada
