---
date: 2025-09-25 19:35:44
title: 亚马逊影响者计划
categories:
  - Amazon
  - 广告
permalink: /pages/8c313f
---

# Amazon Influencer Program

The Amazon Influencer Program allows influencers to monetize their online presence by promoting products on Amazon. Here are the key features:

- Monetization Methods: Influencers can earn through affiliate commissions, livestream earnings, and exclusive deals.
- Creating a Storefront: Influencers can create a personalized storefront on Amazon to showcase products they recommend.
- Tools and Support: The program provides tools to help influencers select and recommend products effectively, allowing them to earn commissions on qualifying purchases.

<!-- more -->

_Content creators participating in the Amazon Influencer Program earn affiliate commissions from Amazon for qualifying purchases._

**What is the Amazon Influencer Program?**

The Amazon Influencer Program is an extension of the Amazon Associates (affiliate) program, that brings product-related content from Influencers onto Amazon to help customers research and discover products they might be interested in.

**What is an Influencer?**

An influencer is anyone who has a meaningful social media following. Influencers across any category can participate in this program. Currently you must have a YouTube, Instagram, Tiktok or Facebook account to qualify.

**How do I know when content is from an Influencer?**

Influencer content will always have the name of the program (Amazon Influencer).

**Does Amazon validate or express the opinions made in the content?**

No. Influencers are able to independently determine whether to recommend a product. Amazon does not modify or edit content, as long as they comply with our posting guidelines

**Where does this content come from?**

Amazon takes content provided by Influencers and surfaces the most relevant content for customers during their shopping experience.

**How can I learn more about the influencer making the recommendation?**

Click on the Influencer’s name provided with their content and you will be taken to their profile where they have a bio and a link to their influencer Storefront where you can see more content from that influencer.

**Are Influencers expected to write only positive reviews?**

We don't expect that Influencers/Onsite Associates will write only positive things. We expect that they'll help customers to discover/research products, through critiquing them as well. If an Influencer has a negative comment about a product, it will have no impact on how Amazon shows or promotes that product. Influencers need to comply with our community guidelines

**Are Influencers paid for providing recommendations?**

Content creators participating in the Amazon Influencer Program earn affiliate commissions from Amazon for qualifying purchases.

**How can I join the program?**

To see if you qualify go to amazon.com/influencers
