---
title: Reboot Sequence
date: 2024-06-27 11:48:23
permalink: /pages/3ddad3/
categories:
  - Soundfreaq
tags:
  - Soundfreaq
  - Sound Rise
---

## What is firmware?

Firmware is programming that's written to a hardware device's non-volatile memory. Non-volatile memory is a form of static random access memory where the content is saved when a hardware device is turned off or loses its external power source.

Firmware is installed directly onto a piece of hardware during manufacturing. It is used to run user programs on the device and can be thought of as the software that enables hardware to run.

## What problems does resetting to factory defaults usually fix?

In some cases, certain buttons may have lost their original function; this sometimes appears to be a firmware malfunction caused by certain mysterious operating patterns or environmental conditions. This type of problem can usually be resolved by a factory reset.

## What problems will a factory reset not solve?

If the malfunction is due to physical defects in the hardware, such as a broken tact switch, the firmware reset will not work. The hardware defects must be repaired.

## How to reset a Sound Rise to factory settings

We have a reset sequence for the Sound Rise SFQ-08, and here are the steps to reset:

1. Press SNOOZE to enter standby mode (off mode where only the clock is displayed, no music is played).
2. Press and hold TONE (on the bottom of the back panel), then press and hold SET (on the top panel) for about 3 seconds to restart the unit.

After restarting, the Sound Rise will lose all settings such as alarm and time.
